--- 
layout: post
title: Skate and Create
date: 2010-1-15
comments: false
categories: General BMX
link: false
---

{% img left http://dischord.org/misc/static/2.jpg 200 301 %}

So this post was inspired by [a little video](http://www.wk.com/wke/show/DIY/episode/4) that I came across recently,
which includes Ian MacKaye (amongst others) talking about how life as a
skateboarder changes your perception of the world around you.

It's funny because it's this exact same conversation that I've had with so many
other people (BMXers mainly) through the years.  For example, once you've been
riding for long enough a kerb is no longer just a kerb;  you go through a
mental checklist of all the qualifying critera necessary for a successful boost
of said object.  Is it transitioned or merely flat?  How tall is it?  Is it
short and tight, meaning it'll pop you right up, or long and mellow needing
some speed and a slow huck to loft anything out of it?

The everyday mundane street furniture that 'ordinary' people see takes on a
whole new meaning and is interpreted in an entirely different way by both
skateboarders and BMXers alike.  A bench, a rail, a bank to wall.  In most
cases the original architect or whoever built the obstacle would have been
totally oblivious to such potential, but every once in a while you have to
wonder exactly what that person was thinking when they decided to building
something like Dusseldorf University (RIP).

I think everywhere I've ever lived has gone through some process of mental
categorisation by how much 'street' there is to ride.  Seriously, finding a
wallride tucked away in some obscure part of town ranks in my mind far higher
than, say, a decent shopping mall or a Starbucks.  In fact, I'd swap all that
shit for a decent kerb to session.
